How I came about completing my app
I had an extremely tough time completing this app, as I had to utilize all the resources I could combine into making this masterpiece. To start, I knew how to design my app; that simplicity was learned from my lecturer (Lecturer’s guidance). Then, I learned how to declare from him too, but later on, I needed some assistance, especially in making the ages and numbers work without constantly crashing (YouTube tutorial 1). So, I sought insight from YouTube (YouTube tutorial 2). It was hard to understand at first, but eventually, I mastered it. The concept behind the video was not straightforward, so I had to go back and forth to comprehend it fully. Now that I have a better understanding of the concept, I feel more confident in completing the assignment. However, I ran into another problem—this time, I had to face the challenge of adding information to the app to display historical figures without crashing. Trying to optimize it somehow, I found another video on YouTube. Eventually, I gained the ability to add people to my project.
Then, I had to move on to adding moments. I had no clue what to do regarding that, and it was very tricky to type without errors disrupting my pace. Eventually, I figured out how to add comments at the last minute. Now, I had to proceed to the actual functionality of the app. Debugging did not work as my app kept bugging and crashing repeatedly. Eventually, I resorted to doing a clean start of the project, but I was scared of errors. I eventually realized that the best way to get it to work would be to use Blue Stacks and run the emulator. Now, it's working and effectively functional, although not flawless initially. I had to press the clear button for it to function properly when putting ages into the app. The progress I made was inevitably successful.
Now, I just needed to create a GitHub account and post it there. It was super hard because I had no clue how to use GitHub or create an account. However, with some effort and guidance from YouTube, I eventually got it to work. As I was doing it, it seemed easy—yet, I encountered several obstacles, including constant deletion of project code and the feeling of giving up. After overcoming these challenges, I moved on to recording the video for YouTube.
Then, I proceeded to download the necessary software for recording the video. I had to get the application to unzip the software within, which required searching for the password. However, it all worked out in the end, and I eventually got the program to run. I recorded my video and added sound to the voiceover, as the remote desktop does not have sound when recording. After figuring that out, it was time to publish the YouTube video and make the GitHub account visible with my project and readme file.
Now, I have completed all the important stages of my project. The simpler tasks were approaching, and things were beginning to get easier. Submission was tricky because I had to navigate a new system called Brightspace. However, it seemed easy and straightforward. All I had to do now was finish this document and submit it along with posting this Word document onto Brightspace.
This project was tiring as it drained me daily and was really exhausting, driving into walls and going into endless corners, sometimes wanting to give up and do nothing anymore. However, I eventually defeated the beast and thanked the lord for giving me the patience and indefatigability to complete this assignment to the best of my efforts. What I’ve learned is that I have to apply myself to study as my lecturer didn’t guide us much but did provide us with what we needed for completing the project. I am thankful for resources like YouTube and could never express how much I truly feel about how useful and effective they are, even though indirect. Although it was a long learning curve, I have truly benefited a lot from this. I loved it and was able to sharpen my IT skills, especially in coding, as I am always up for a challenge. I can't be left behind, especially in my past, and now that I am able to do apps like these with these advancements, maybe I’m already ready for project 2 and will be able to do it without any assistance. I hope I can use these skills to hone myself for the working environment and become a potent asset, moving on to more challenging assignments. I hope I will be able to easily complete the next coming assignment and can complete it much earlier because it was challenging and pressuring as I had procrastinated heavily, paying the full price for not taking it seriously. Now, I can be content with the project. Kotlin is no walk in the park; the Higher Certificate in the name of this course really made me underestimate it. However, now I can value and cherish the power of being able to do things before they are due and can effectively come about easily researching and completing this assignment was more or less a challenging pace. But hopefully, I can use these newly honed skills to make these assignments easier and on time because procrastination is the killer of dreams and progress, and I truly regret procrastinating. Hopefully on my next project I will not procrastinate and will do things in due time and complete what’s required for me to complete. The learning curve that this was it has equipped me with the discipline needed for my other courses that are also challenging and just require me to dedicate my time to them like this one leaving it for 2 weeks was not a good idea at all. The purpose of this app is to show you that you’re the same age as Michael Jackson when he died it gives you a sense of peacefulness for being able to be alive and he is not. 
The elements I used to design the app were based around the background image if my app which is the map of Africa and its in the olden times giving it that historical theme then the colors of the buttons match that of the background image the reason I positioned the buttons and text view is so that 











after a user inputs their age and are expecting the result to be displayed onto the text view that’s located underneath the find button the text view being positioned like this is so that the user can easily see the output of their input then here is the error message for entering an invalid age
it will say “There is no historical figure in our records who is 2 years old” this lets the user know that there is no historical figure in my code that is any age after 100 or before 20 in my records because those were the limits we were given to work around in this project 



then here is the app functioning properly where when you enter a valid age you then get told 
“you are the same age as Juice world when he died” this was a tiring project that I poured all my resources into to get my app working and functioning efficiently all this eventually worked now I am reaping the fruits of my hard work  
References 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UwcVbgnSzA4
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kPD62bkxGWI
GitHub Tutorial - Beginner's Training Guide (youtube.com)


